exampleSite/content/episode/jan.md, before:

+++
Description = "Ownership churn rate influencer. Value proposition angel investor metrics learning curve. Social proof assets crowdsource infrastructure rockstar backing ownership supply chain. Growth hacking user experience research & development termsheet series A financing hackathon. Ramen release buyer infrastructure. Scrum project client buzz. Marketing social media bootstrapping technology paradigm shift prototype business model canvas graphical user interface direct mailing long tail stock MVP partnership freemium. Disruptive sales technology supply chain return on investment. Hypotheses lean startup validation funding network effects. Non-disclosure agreement business-to-business innovator research & development alpha focus founders entrepreneur analytics iteration funding return on investment business plan advisor."
aliases = ["/4"]
author = "Matt"
categories = []
date = "2016-01-25T04:08:15-05:00"
episode = "4"
episode_image = "img/episode/jan.jpg"
explicit = "no"
guests = ["jsmith", "chernandez", "ccooper"]
images = ["img/episode/default-social.jpg"]
news_keywords = []
podcast_duration = "1:08:22"
podcast_file = "arrested-devops-podcast-episode053.mp3"
podcast_bytes = ""
tags = []
title = "Happy New Year"
youtube = ""

+++

Bootstrapping alpha seed money scrum project. Business model canvas low hanging fruit series A financing release vesting period research & development market buzz network effects channels long tail client partner network pivot. Innovator market android buyer gamification. User experience gamification interaction design sales. Buyer stealth research & development sales business-to-business social media graphical user interface. Market incubator hypotheses seed money release low hanging fruit infographic responsive web design branding technology interaction design buyer. Ramen rockstar gen-z buzz supply chain first mover advantage crowdsource mass market entrepreneur user experience advisor business-to-business twitter strategy. Termsheet low hanging fruit lean startup crowdfunding customer. Buzz bandwidth growth hacking business plan channels incubator technology learning curve strategy. Disruptive sales founders paradigm shift stock growth hacking graphical user interface customer iPhone channels funding.

Buyer vesting period technology. Android ownership gamification churn rate low hanging fruit. Interaction design twitter termsheet creative branding facebook social proof network effects iPhone success startup funding. Rockstar supply chain return on investment incubator deployment pitch. Gamification backing stealth startup facebook seed round niche market supply chain infographic hackathon investor crowdfunding user experience. Assets crowdfunding stealth social media leverage paradigm shift seed round incubator research & development ownership analytics gamification. Growth hacking business plan partner network android funding channels graphical user interface validation facebook handshake. Monetization direct mailing social proof. A/B testing crowdsource validation advisor user experience marketing angel investor direct mailing low hanging fruit crowdfunding burn rate seed money assets. Paradigm shift client stock ownership agile development stealth.

Channels influencer innovator iteration return on investment bandwidth responsive web design iPad freemium early adopters. Disruptive A/B testing pivot agile development learning curve metrics pitch. Research & development backing channels business plan paradigm shift mass market iPad value proposition business-to-consumer analytics bandwidth infographic gen-z buzz. Accelerator agile development advisor lean startup network effects. Gen-z supply chain seed money business plan stock equity termsheet metrics ecosystem bootstrapping hypotheses. Leverage pitch market scrum project responsive web design. Validation branding disruptive ownership. Equity scrum project mass market seed round iteration. Gen-z user experience learning curve marketing crowdfunding. Bootstrapping rockstar technology sales niche market founders disruptive partner network paradigm shift focus bandwidth angel investor.

Commit message:

Add Category, Tag and Series taxonomies to theme (#307)
Co-authored-by: Chris Reddington <chredd@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Matt Stratton <matt.stratton@hey.com>

exampleSite/content/episode/jan.md, after:

+++
Description = "Ownership churn rate influencer. Value proposition angel investor metrics learning curve. Social proof assets crowdsource infrastructure rockstar backing ownership supply chain. Growth hacking user experience research & development termsheet series A financing hackathon. Ramen release buyer infrastructure. Scrum project client buzz. Marketing social media bootstrapping technology paradigm shift prototype business model canvas graphical user interface direct mailing long tail stock MVP partnership freemium. Disruptive sales technology supply chain return on investment. Hypotheses lean startup validation funding network effects. Non-disclosure agreement business-to-business innovator research & development alpha focus founders entrepreneur analytics iteration funding return on investment business plan advisor."
aliases = ["/4"]
author = "Matt"
date = "2016-01-25T04:08:15-05:00"
episode = "4"
episode_image = "img/episode/jan.jpg"
explicit = "no"
guests = ["jsmith", "chernandez", "ccooper"]
images = ["img/episode/default-social.jpg"]
news_keywords = []
podcast_duration = "1:08:22"
podcast_file = "arrested-devops-podcast-episode053.mp3"
podcast_bytes = ""
title = "Happy New Year"
youtube = ""

categories = ["Cloud Technology"]
series = ["Exploring the Cloud"]
tags = ["Mobile", "APIs", "Technology"]
+++

Bootstrapping alpha seed money scrum project. Business model canvas low hanging fruit series A financing release vesting period research & development market buzz network effects channels long tail client partner network pivot. Innovator market android buyer gamification. User experience gamification interaction design sales. Buyer stealth research & development sales business-to-business social media graphical user interface. Market incubator hypotheses seed money release low hanging fruit infographic responsive web design branding technology interaction design buyer. Ramen rockstar gen-z buzz supply chain first mover advantage crowdsource mass market entrepreneur user experience advisor business-to-business twitter strategy. Termsheet low hanging fruit lean startup crowdfunding customer. Buzz bandwidth growth hacking business plan channels incubator technology learning curve strategy. Disruptive sales founders paradigm shift stock growth hacking graphical user interface customer iPhone channels funding.

Buyer vesting period technology. Android ownership gamification churn rate low hanging fruit. Interaction design twitter termsheet creative branding facebook social proof network effects iPhone success startup funding. Rockstar supply chain return on investment incubator deployment pitch. Gamification backing stealth startup facebook seed round niche market supply chain infographic hackathon investor crowdfunding user experience. Assets crowdfunding stealth social media leverage paradigm shift seed round incubator research & development ownership analytics gamification. Growth hacking business plan partner network android funding channels graphical user interface validation facebook handshake. Monetization direct mailing social proof. A/B testing crowdsource validation advisor user experience marketing angel investor direct mailing low hanging fruit crowdfunding burn rate seed money assets. Paradigm shift client stock ownership agile development stealth.

Channels influencer innovator iteration return on investment bandwidth responsive web design iPad freemium early adopters. Disruptive A/B testing pivot agile development learning curve metrics pitch. Research & development backing channels business plan paradigm shift mass market iPad value proposition business-to-consumer analytics bandwidth infographic gen-z buzz. Accelerator agile development advisor lean startup network effects. Gen-z supply chain seed money business plan stock equity termsheet metrics ecosystem bootstrapping hypotheses. Leverage pitch market scrum project responsive web design. Validation branding disruptive ownership. Equity scrum project mass market seed round iteration. Gen-z user experience learning curve marketing crowdfunding. Bootstrapping rockstar technology sales niche market founders disruptive partner network paradigm shift focus bandwidth angel investor.
